How SEO is changing with AI
So, the last few months I've been just
obsessing over AI and SEO and everything
that's going on right now because so
much is changing. Everybody's scrambling
trying to figure out where's this going,
what's actually working, how to get
mentioned on LLMs like Chat GPT, but I
want to break this down so you know
everything that you need to know moving
forward. So, to make this video easy,
I've broken this down into five key
ideas. If you understand these, you're
going to be just fine. Number one,
How AI is affecting Google
Google is still by far the most popular
search engine. So don't let anybody
convince you that all of the sudden
everybody's going to chat GPT to find a
dentist because that's just not the
case. Now, with that said, things are
definitely changing in the world of SEO,
probably more so than ever before.
People are using these different LLMs to
ask questions, get information, and in
some cases to find a business. So, we
definitely need to be aware of that. And
I'm going to talk about what that means
for your SEO strategy here in a second.
How will AI affect my business SEO?
The second thing you need to understand
is this is absolutely a positive change
for good businesses. The purpose of AI
is just to be a more accurate search
engine. So, it's going to be quicker and
more accurate at recommending good
businesses. It's no longer just going to
be about keywords and backlinks. These
AI models are going to accurately
measure and judge all the different
brands across the web and then give the
results that best fit the prompt. So if
you're a good business, if you do good
work, if you have a good reputation and
if you truly are the best fit for that
person, you're going to get recommended.
The reason I'm excited about this is I
don't think people are going to be able
to gain the system anymore. There's no
longer this paytoplay element where
people can just buy a ton of backlinks
and outrank everybody else. If you are a
quality business and truly the best fit,
you're going to get suggested. Number
How do you rank on LLMs?
three, the basics still win. Quality,
authority, keywords, content, and
reputation are still the main factors
that determine your ranking and
exposure. Search engines like Google
have always been highly motivated to
serve up the best results for whatever
is being searched. If it doesn't give
good results, people would cease to use
those search engines. And AI is exactly
the same way. if it's not giving the
correct information or giving good
suggestions, people just wouldn't use
it. And with how quickly AI is evolving,
it's going to get to the point where it
gives the perfect answer, the perfect
solution. But if you really think about
it, there's no better way to determine
what business to recommend other than
those basics. These are the natural
signals that have worked in the past to
rank a business, and they're going to
work in the future. The way that search
engines and AI go about finding a good
business is the exact same way that you
or I would go about finding a good
friend. Are they a quality human? Are
they trustworthy? Do you connect and
agree with what they say? And do they
have a good reputation? It's the way we
judge people and it's the way that we
judge businesses. And I don't see that
changing. There's there's really no
better way. So, as long as you get those
basics right, it's highly likely that
you're going to get mentioned in these
AI chats. All right. Number four, there
How to hack AI SEO
are hacks and shortcuts, but like all of
the other SEO hacks before, they're
going to get nerfed. Right now, SEO
experts across the web are looking for
ways to cheat the system to boost their
rankings the easiest way possible. Now,
that's just part of SEO. So, feel free
to pursue and exploit those different
hacks as you find them. But be aware
that at the end of the day, the only
things that are tried and true and
always will be are those basics. So,
don't feel overwhelmed or feel like
you're being left behind because
somebody else found a way to spam Reddit
and get their business mentioned in chat
GPT because a lot of those things are
already getting fixed. So, in the grand
scheme of things, those really are just
shiny objects. So, you can pursue them,
but don't make them your whole strategy.
The best tools for AI SEO
Now, the fifth and final and probably
most important point of this video is
something that has always been true in
SEO and always will be true moving
forward, and that is the tools are
everything. If you want to be successful
at SEO, you need to use the right tools.
You can scrape all the data you want
manually and run as many searches and
prompts as you want, but you will barely
scratch the surface of understanding
your brand visibility and your rankings
unless you use the right SEO tools. Now,
this is easy for me to say because I've
built my own SEO tools, but even my team
internally, we use multiple different
SEO tools for basic SEO and for AEO or
AI SEO. There's no reason for you to try
to do this manually or even with just
one tool because there is so much data
out there and these tools today make it
so easy to visualize and understand that
data and then know exactly what you need
to do to increase your visibility. Now
the SEO tool that we've been building,
clicks.so is a basic keyword research
and analytics tool. But we've pretty
much dropped everything that we're
working on within the tool to focus on
our new AI features because we know that
not only is it trending right now, but
it's going to be so important for the
future. The way this tool works is so
cool. You can track your prompts. You
can see your visibility and sentiment
scores across all the different LLMs.
And it's going to make it so much easier
for you to track when your brand is
getting mentioned, not only on search
engines, but also on all these different
AI chats. So, all of this is going to be
ready to launch probably in the next
week or two, but we really need beta
testers to dive in, use the tools, see
how it works, give feedback. So, if this
is something that you would like to try,
all you need to do is go join the wait
list at clicks.so/ai.
Once you're on that wait list, we'll
shoot you a message right when the beta
version becomes available so you can
dive in and start tracking your prompts
and your visibility. This is going to be
such a cool tool. I'm so excited to use
it for all of our clients and I'm
excited to share it with all of you. So,
if you have any questions about SEO or
AEO or anything else that we've talked
about in this video, drop it down in the
comments. Thanks for watching this video
and we'll catch you in the next

